So let's practice using
EventBridge input transformers.
So to do so, let's go into EventBridge.
Let's go under Rules.
And we're going to create a rule,
and this was going to be DemoInputTransformer.
Okay, so what we're going to do is that
we want to have an input,
but we want to transform it
because this is something
that can come up in the exam
even as a hands-on lab.
So how do we do it?
Well, we have an event bus,
and then we're going to have a rule
that matches an event pattern.
So we send next.
Then the event source is going to be an AWS event.
And for sample events for now,
we're going to trigger it.
This is a AWS event.
And the event we want to filter on
is the EC2 instance state-change notification.
So you paste this in,
and this is what the input event looks like.
So we have an id,
we have a detail type, we have a source,
an account, a timestamp,
we have a region,
we have resource
which is the instance ID
that it supplies to the full ARN.
Then detail, we have instance ID and states.
And this is a JSON document
and it may look fine,
but maybe a downstream application
wants to have a specific event type
and doesn't want to use this,
but instead wants to use
a simplified version of it
where maybe the instance ID is not under detail
but it's just one level up.
For whatever reason
you may want to transform this.
So let's see how we can do it.
So first, we are going to use
a creation method of use pattern form,
and then AWS services, EC2 again.
So we have to reselect the event type.
So take this one and then paste it in.
And then we just have
this event pattern right here
that has been created.
So this is good.
We'll click on Next.
Next, we want to target an AWS service.
So to do so, I'm going to target CloudWatch log groups,
and it is going to be under
/aws/events/event input transformation.
And then where we actually
configure the input transformation
is under additional settings.
And then here under configure target inputs,
we're going to click here
and say we want an input transformer.
And here we can configure this input transformer
and it gets fun.
So again, we have to respecify the sample events.
So let's filter and have it here.
So now we have the sampled events just like before,
but now we have an input path that we can have.
So the doc, this console gives you
some information around what you can have.
So it gives you, for example,
I'll show you right now.
It gives you like input path like this.
This is the template
and this is the output.
And we're going to use something similar,
but you can have a look at this in your own time.
But let's go into target input transformer.
So this is to define variables
and you can have at least as right now
as up to 100 variables in there.
And then we can use the variable
as this variable name.
So to define variables,
we have to use a JSON documents.
I'll paste it in
and we have a look at it in a second.
So here on the left hand side,
we define the variable name which is timestamp.
And here we define the value of timestamp.
Dollar means to take the inputs,
dot means to look up
for a field in a JSON form,
and time is to look for the time field.
So dollar dot time brings us here
to this time field.
So we take this value
and it's going to be stored
under the name "timestamp."
We can go as down as we want.
So if we do dollar dot detail dot instance id,
we go in here in detail.
Then underneath detail,
we have JSON documents.
So instance-id,
and then we get the instance ID out of it.
So we have the same for states.
And finally, if you have arrays,
you can use the brackets
to specify the value
in the position in the array.
So dollar dot resources is an array,
and bracket zero means number zero.
So here we have the resources.
This is an array,
and zero means this one right here.
Awesome.
So we have defined four input variables
and then we can do whatever we want with it.
For example, I could say something like
instance was launched at timestamp,
and so we can try it out.
So we can generate output.
And as we can see,
we see that our instance
was launched at this timestamp
just by having this input template as this output.
So everything is working great,
but to send stuff into CloudWatch log groups,
you need to actually include a JSON document.
So we'll include this JSON document,
and it's going to be a very simple one.
It's going to be saying,
"Hey, the timestamp is this timestamp
and this is necessary by CloudWatch log groups."
And then the message is,
"Instance blah blah is in state state
at timestamp with ARN resource."
Let's generate the outputs.
And as you can see,
we see the proper messages
that we want out of it.
So let's confirm this
and then save our events.
So save right here,
update this rule or create it.
So how do we test this?
Well, let's go into the EC2 console,
and I'm going to just create an EC2 instance
and see whether or not
we see some things in EventBridge.
So let's launch an instance "demo,"
and I'm going to scroll down very quickly.
We don't need a key pair.
Everything else looks good.
Let's launch this instance.
So these instances being launched
is going to actually generate some EventBridge data.
So EventBridge will send it to CloudWatch log.
So I need to go into CloudWatch logs now.
Okay.
And I go into Logs, Log groups,
then I look for AWS event input transformation.
And as you can see right now
we have log streams being created.
So if you have a look at one of this,
for example, we have the timestamp that was included,
and then the message's instance
is in state pending at this timestamp
with ARN like this.
So this is fully working,
and we can have a look at this event right here
where it says
now the instance is in state running.
So our integration is perfectly working.
This is awesome.
We have taken an event from EventBridge,
we've transformed it,
thanks to input transformers.
And now it's in CloudWatch logs.
So to just complete this,
terminate your instance
so you don't have any cost associated with this.
And you can leave the row running
if you want it to,
or you can just disable it.
All right, that's it for this lecture.
I hope you liked it and I will see you in the next lecture.